Update Project Architecture Chapter (#94)
infinum/android-handbook: Project architecture/MVVM.md

### StateFlow and SharedFlow

[StateFlow](https://developer.android.com/kotlin/flow/stateflow-and-sharedflow#stateflow) and [SharedFlow](https://developer.android.com/kotlin/flow/stateflow-and-sharedflow#sharedflow) are Flow APIs which we use to enable flows to optimally emit state updates and emit values to multiple consumers.

By definition,

> StateFlow is a state-holder observable flow that emits current and new state updates to its collectors.

Essentially, StateFlow is very convenient for keeping our view states. It is a great fit for maintaining observable mutable states and handling live state updates.

On the other hand, SharedFLow is a highly-configurable generalization of StateFlow. 

> All methods of SharedFlow are thread-safe and can be safely invoked from concurrent coroutines without external synchronization.

SharedFlow is the perfect choice when dealing with events. With SharedFlow, we avoid the trouble of handling resubscriptions (the cases when we want to do a certain action only once, such as showing toasts, Snackbar, navigating between fragments, etc.). SharedFlow behaves as a hot flow and it emits values to all consumers that collect from it.

> ### LiveData vs Flow vs StateFlow vs SharedFlow

Reviewer: Should LiveData, Flow etc be in a separate file?
Common Android? And just reference their use here.
This would go into a more extensive discussion about the restructuring handbook. All comments are welcomed.

Most applications contain some screens that can be grouped into a flow. Inside this flow, you will often have to share some data. Information from the previous screen might be needed or might influence some of the future screens. The ViewModel and LiveData can be the perfect solution for such situations. If you organize a specific flow inside one activity and all other screens as a fragment, it is easy to share a ViewModel among all fragments and the controlling activity. This makes it easy to share, store, combine, and manage all the data in the flow.

> ## Coroutines vs RxJava

Reviewer: Great chapter!
But should this really be under MVVM? Common Android?

Author: I agree, it is a bit out of place in the MVVM chapter, maybe we could move it to some other chapter as you suggested.

> A coroutine is a concurrency design pattern that you can use on Android to simplify code that executes asynchronously. Coroutines help to manage long-running tasks that might otherwise block the main thread and cause your app to become unresponsive.

Nowadays, coroutines are significantly dominating over other solutions (such as RxJava) for asynchronous programming in Android. Coroutines are extremely lightweight (due to their support for suspension - ability to run many coroutines on a single thread) and they have built-in cancellation support. On top of that, coroutines lead to fewer memory leaks (by using structured concurrency) and they provide a nice Jetpack integration.

> Sooner or later, coroutines will start offering more and more features which will not be present in RxJava, thus, if you are using Kotlin as a primary programming language for Android development, migrating your app from RxJava to coroutines is a safe bet.

Reviewer: Also, maybe a bit different phrasing would be better?
```suggestion
Using coroutines and Kotlin for Android development goes hand in hand. If you are using RxJava our suggestion would be to migrate to coroutines. To help you with migration you can covert RxJava code to coroutines using libraries like [kotlinx-coroutines-rx3](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.coroutines/kotlinx-coroutines-rx3/)
```

```

This is now enough to establish a connection between the View and ViewModel.

So far, we've only concentrated on the View and ViewModel, but what about the Model in MVVM? The Model is responsible for managing the data received from a specific data source (Database, Network, etc.), completely UI independent. This means that the Model should expose its data only to the ViewModel. The ViewModel can also request some data from the Model, so it is a two-way communication.

### Implementation using StateFlow and SharedFlow

If we want to use StateFlow and SharedFlow as a substitution to the LiveData objects mentioned above, our BaseViewModel will look something like this:

```kotlin
abstract class BaseViewModel<State : Any, Event : Any>(private val initialState: State) : ViewModel() {

    val state: StateFlow<State> get() = stateFlow
    val commonState: StateFlow<CommonState> get() = commonStateFlow
    val event: SharedFlow<Event> get() = eventFlow

    private val stateFlow: MutableStateFlow<State> by lazy { MutableStateFlow(initialState) }
    private val commonStateFlow = MutableStateFlow(CommonState())
    private val eventFlow: MutableSharedFlow<Event> = MutableSharedFlow()

> }

Reviewer: Again, this should go into a more extensive discussion about the restructuring handbook. I think we should add chapter about the common testing setup for architecture (base test classes, how to test livedata, flows etc)
I remember recently there was some question about it in #team-android

A backing field and function would be really helpful for using these objects inside our ViewModels which inherit from the BaseViewModel, therefore, in our BaseViewModel we will add the following code:

```kotlin
abstract class BaseViewModel<State : Any, Event : Any>(private val initialState: State) : ViewModel() {

    //...

    var viewState: State
        get() = state.value
        set(state) {
            stateFlow.value = state
        }

    protected suspend fun emitEvent(event: Event) {
        eventFlow.emit(event)
    }
}
```

In the Activity or Fragment, we will handle the states and events and adjust the UI accordingly.

At this point, the concept of MVVM and how to implement it should be much clearer and easier to understand. Take into account that the code you saw was very simplified, just to show the conceptual idea of MVVM in Android. This is only one way to implement it, there are many more different kinds of implementation that may include [DataBinding](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/data-binding/) or are very [Rx](http://reactivex.io/) heavy.

> A textbook example of our proposal of MVVM architecture can be found on this [GitHub repo](https://github.com/infinum/Android-MvvM-Example). In the README, you will find all the details for a base setup and using Android architecture components.

Reviewer: @ffloreani Kristina mentioned this in the PR description. Here is a link to the private Infinum repo in the public Handbook. Do we keep it?

Reviewer 2: Sorry for taking so long to answer 😅 yeah, we should not have any links from the public to the private handbook. It breaks our SEO and page rank on Google. We can just remove the link and we should be good 😄

Author: I removed it. 👍 I also updated some links in the MVP chapter which were linking existing chapters, but I guess some restructuring of the handbook was done in the meantime, so the links were giving me “This chapter does not exist.” error even when I was logged in with Infinum ID. One more thing 😅 , in the Mobile app architecture chapter, in the Documentation section, there are some links to keynote presentations on Infinum’s Google drive which are not available to the public (only the link to the PDF template is accessible), so I guess parts of that section should be removed as well. We could consider relocating this section somewhere in the private repo chapters because it seems useful.

Reviewer: That sounds like a good idea to me

Reviewer 2: I'd really love to keep the _Mobile app architecture_ page public, it's good content that can attract other devs to Infinum 👿 

A fun fact is that links that are hidden behind Google's own login are not counted as broken links 😄 so no worries about things stored on our Google Drive

Author: I meant moving parts of the Documentation section to the private repo (the steps with instructions “How to” looked very Infinum specific to me), definitely didn’t think about moving the whole chapter. 😅 However, yeah, since they don’t count as broken links, no biggie, they might as well stay. 😄 Make the devs come to Infinum if they want to see where the links go? 😉
